# Phase 4: Secure Assets
Based on the potential of assets to be crypto agile and cost of migration, this phase will help to determine if mitigation should be done by phasing out the asset, accepting the risk and maintaining the status quo, or securing the asset.

- If the risk is *high* and crypto agility is *low*, the recommendation is to *phase out the asset* and review alternative solutions that are more crypto agile. This option may apply if the value of the asset is lower than the expected risk, especially if the cost to secure it is high.
- If the risk is *high* and crypto agility is *high*, the recommendation is to *secure the asset* and perform testing to ensure smooth operation. This may be rational when the value of asset is greater than the cost to secure it. It can be achieved by upgrading the asset with a new crypto solution that mitigates the risk. An alternative is to implement compensating controls to reduce the risk exposure, which may be the best option for legacy assets that cannot be upgraded to a secure state.
- If the risk is *low*, regardless of crypto agility, the recommendation is to *accept the risk* and include exception process for the asset. Maintaining the status quo is reasonable when the expected value of the risk is lower than the organization’s risk tolerance.

The actions needed for each recommendation differ depending on the nature of the asset and the organization. The [Resource](https://github.com/Comcast/CARAF/tree/main/Phase%204%3A%20Secure%20Assets/Resources) folder provides a list of implementations and vendors for reference of what may need to be done technically. Once the recommendation and list of actions needed are decided for each asset, proceed to [Phase 5](https://github.com/comcast/CARAF/tree/main/Phase%205%3A%20Organizational%20Roadmap).
